.TH TORK\-MASTER 1 2014\-01\-02 19.6.0
.SH NAME
.PP
tork\-master \- absorbs overhead and runs tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCtork-master\fR [\fIOPTION\fP]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program absorbs your Ruby application's test execution overhead once and
simply 
.BR fork (3)s 
worker processses to run your tests thereafter.  As a result,
your tests run faster because they no longer spend any time absorbing the test
execution overhead: worker processes simply inherit the overhead when forked.
.PP
This program can be controlled remotely by multiple 
.BR tork-remote (1) 
instances.
.SS Input
.PP
This program reads the following commands, which are single\-line JSON arrays,
from stdin and then performs the associated actions.  For lines read from
stdin that are single\-line JSON arrays, it splits each of them into an array
of words, using the same word\-splitting algorithm as 
.BR sh (1), 
before processing
them.  For example, the line \fB\fCa "b c"\fR is split into the \fB\fC["a", "b c"]\fR array.
.TP
\fB\fC["test",\fR \fItest_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIline_numbers\fP\fB\fC]\fR
Forks a worker process to run tests that correspond to the given
\fIline_numbers\fP in the given \fItest_file\fP\&.  If \fIline_numbers\fP is empty, then
the entire \fItest_file\fP will be run.
.TP
\fB\fC["stop",\fR \fIsignal\fP\fB\fC]\fR
Stops all tests that are currently running by sending the given \fIsignal\fP
(optional; defaults to "SIGTERM") to their respective worker processes.
.TP
\fB\fC["quit"]\fR
Stops all tests that are currently running and exits.
.SS Output
.PP
This program prints the following messages, which are single\-line JSON arrays,
to stdout.
.TP
\fB\fC["absorb"]\fR
Test execution overhead has been absorbed.  We are ready for testing!
.TP
\fB\fC["test",\fR \fItest_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIline_numbers\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIlog_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIworker_number\fP\fB\fC]\fR
Test has begun running.  Its output (both stdout and stderr) is being
captured into \fIlog_file\fP in real time, so you can watch it with \fB\fCtail -f\fR\&.
.TP
\fB\fC["pass",\fR \fItest_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIline_numbers\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIlog_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIworker_number\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIexit_code\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIexit_info\fP\fB\fC]\fR
Test has passed.
.TP
\fB\fC["fail",\fR \fItest_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIline_numbers\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIlog_file\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIworker_number\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIexit_code\fP\fB\fC,\fR \fIexit_info\fP\fB\fC]\fR
Test has failed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC-h\fR, \fB\fC--help\fR
Show this help manual.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI\&.tork/config.rb\fP
Optional Ruby script that is loaded inside the driver process on startup.
It can read and change the \fB\fCENV['TORK_CONFIGS']\fR environment variable.
.TP
\fI\&.tork/master.rb\fP
Optional Ruby script that is loaded inside the master process on startup.
It can read and change the following variables.
.PP
.RS
.TP
\fB\fCTork::Master::MAX_CONCURRENT_WORKERS\fR
Maximum number of worker processes that are allowed to be running
simultaneously at any given time.  The default value is either the
number of processors detected on your system or 1 if detection failed.
.RE
.TP
\fI\&.tork/onfork.rb\fP
Optional Ruby script that is loaded inside the master process just before a
worker process is forked.  It can read and change the following variables.
.PP
.RS
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_test_file\fR
Path of the test file that will be run by the worker process.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_line_numbers\fR
Array of line numbers in the test file that were requested to be run.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_log_file\fR
Path of the log file that will hold the output of the worker process.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_worker_number\fR
Sequence number of the worker process that will be forked shortly.
.RE
.TP
\fI\&.tork/worker.rb\fP
Optional Ruby script that is loaded inside a worker process just after
it is forked.  It can read and change the following variables.
.PP
.RS
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_test_file\fR
Path of the test file that will be run by this worker process.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_line_numbers\fR
Array of line numbers in the test file that were requested to be run.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_log_file\fR
Path of the log file that will hold the output of this worker process.
.TP
\fB\fC$tork_worker_number\fR
Sequence number of this worker process.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See 
.BR tork (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tork (1), 
.BR tork-remote (1)